okay blastoise for a randomized run
that's not gonna be too hard yeah i'll
just put this off till next weekend you
know i got other stuff to do
oh god this is too easy like i can't
post this
okay i've got an idea maybe a no tms
run ah that could be interesting
oh no
rival five
oh god
my youtube views are going down what am
i gonna do
wait this isn't a j-rose channel i don't
have to use the badge boost glitch
[Music]
so hello welcome back ladies and
gentlemen my name is teo this is rby
pokemon challenges and today we are
going to do something a little bit
different you know when i make these
runs i always want to find something
that i can show you guys that's a little
bit interesting something that maybe
other runners don't talk about enough or
they don't really dig into as deeply as
i think they should and in this case one
that i want to really dig into is the
badge boost glitch
because the badge boost glitch it was
the key when we did the squirtle run
before
and
it really kind of breaks the game
because badge boosts can really put you
in a position where
a lot of the other tactics that people
complain about uh double team freeze
luck sleep luck
are really on par
with the badge boost glitch but every
runner just says oh badge boosts are
unavoidable so i'm just gonna use it
well in this one i want to show that
maybe badge boosts are pretty darn
broken and the way that we could show
that is by showing it up against another
strategy
our blastoise can really do two super
broken things it can use the badge boost
glitch with withdrawal
and it can also use ice moves meaning
that when it gets in a pinch we could
just wait for free's luck
and then get through any challenge in
the entire game that way
which one do you think will lead to us
finishing the game faster
of course the badge boost glitch takes
time to set up and it does leave us
exposed for a few turns but ice beam or
blizzard only have a 10 chance to freeze
so this could be really interesting
let's get into it
so let's go ahead and load up a new game
with two different files running one
where we're gonna use freeze tactics
we're gonna name it frieza and one where
we're using the badge boost glitch we're
gonna name it saiyan because
using the badge boost glitch is kind of
like going super saiyan multiplying your
powers many times over
so
really the early game shouldn't be too
much to talk about here because we've
already seen in the original brock
minimum battle series that blastoise is
hands down one of the best pokemon for
the early game
it's going to have basically no trouble
against rival one
and
come on brock
has a four times weakness to water gun
but that's not what we're really here
for today we're here to find out if the
badge boost glitch is as broken as
freeze tactics
so here we're getting into our first
rival one battle
with our badge boosting on blastoise and
it just takes it down very easily
and we are going to name our ice version
of the blastoise ice lame because we're
going to lame everything with ice moves
now both of them can make their way up
to brock very easily and his pokemon
take two hits to knock out with water
gun
so we have the first batch done and
that's gonna lead to the very first
possibilities of getting some badge
boosts for our badge boosting blastoise
at this point all the time differences
are really just random luck and the
speed of me entering characters for
names because there's not really
anything else that separates them
now they're both basically fighting the
team rocket and mount moon at the same
time where again the strategy is pretty
simple
we're just using water gun to get
through these pokemon
it is possible to lose as we can see
with the
ice lame version of our blastoise but
it's not really that difficult it did
get its first reset there though
they both move on to misty's gym because
as a water type we've already seen in
the misty minimum battles series that
water type pokemon completely wreck her
she won't use good moves here and we
have mega punch so we just mega punch
her down
with that being done we can pick up our
bubble beam tm and we have another
strong move for the early game
[Music]
so just as that is going on in the first
badge boost version of the blast voices
beat misty of course we're right behind
with the ice lame version
but the badge boosting version is now
going to go on and fight rival 2.
rival 2 is again incredibly easy we have
bubble beam and mega punch so all of
these pokemon go down in one or two hits
so
we'll just make our way there again with
the we'll make our way there with the
ice tactics version
and
basically we can see that
neither of these are really having any
trouble at this point in the early game
which was kind of to be expected and
this is how it's going to run until we
get to celadon
in celadon will be the point where we
can get ice beam and it will in fact be
the point where we get our first badge
boosting move
so here they've both taken out rival 2
it's on to rival 3.
we've got about a minute difference
going on right now and again that's just
purely due to luck and it's due to the
random ko that we got from team rocket
in mount moon
but rival 3 is no challenge
against rival 3 all we have to do is
start by setting up we have bite at this
point which is also a pretty strong move
it can cause the opponent to flinch and
we can use bubble beam to get through
the rest of their teams
now i decide to go ahead and fight
lieutenant serge here because we know
dig and dig can do plenty of damage to
lieutenant surge it's just a matter of
luck so basically we just need to get a
run where he doesn't hit us with a
thunderbolt when we're above ground
we get it and we're done
so now it's on to rival four
right before we've got to be a little
careful because he does know mirror move
with his firo but after we get through
the firo all of these other pokemon are
basically one or two hit kos because dig
can knock them out and bubble beam can
knock them out
this is the last rival we'll fight
however before we separate our
strategies
so once he goes down on the
freeze tactics version of our blastoise
as well we'll make our way to cellidon
and start getting our setup here
[Music]
so
in celadon the first thing of course
that we need to do is go to the celadon
department store
that's where we can get our ice beam
and with ice beam we can already go and
fight erika
ice beam is super effective against
grass type pokemon it's the only super
effective move we could learn against
them at this point
and on top of that we have a chance to
freeze
so our freeze tactics blastoise of
course we're getting a little bit of bad
luck getting put to sleep
but if we can just get the luck to
freeze erica's pokemon we're gonna get
through this i think
so here on this attempt we use ice beam
we get a freeze on the weepin bell we
take it out we get another freeze on the
gloom
and now we can take it out
we've got four badges with ice tactics
the badge boost glitch on the other hand
is really struggling here because
we have to set up badge boosts and in
all that time she can use mega drain
vine whip
and she can just take us out
so it's not happening for the badge
boost glitch version we're gonna move on
to the rocket game corner
so the freeze tactics version of
blastoise is ahead right now and it's
already blown through team rocket we're
gonna move on to giovanni
giovanni is pretty easy because he has
an onyx and a rye horn that go down in
one hit to bubble beam and then against
the persian
i decide to just spam bubble beam three
bubble beams takes it down
with that done we are also getting to
giovanni with the badge boost glitch
version in this one i decided to use
bubble beam the same against onix but
now i'm going to set up badge boosts
here on the rhyhorn it's because
persian's not perfectly consistent it it
does hit pretty hard
so
we want to make sure that we're strong
enough to get through
there we go we have gotten through
giovanni on both versions
so now we are making our way to lavender
tower and it looks like the badge boost
version has gotten ahead here but keep
in mind the badge boost glitch version
has not beaten erika
so at this point we are just going to go
ahead and take out team rocket by using
dig and bubble beam
and it's fairly easy and consistent to
get through that fight
dig really makes the poison types of all
of the rockets pretty easy
so as we're getting to team rocket there
with the freeze tactics version of our
blastoise i decide you know what badge
boost glitch it's time to take on rival
5. let's see how this goes
here we're going to try to set up our
badge boost on the cloister
we can take down the
sand slash easily enough but cloister
causes a lot of problems because it just
spams supersonic on us
and if we do too much damage to
ourselves we could either knock
ourselves out or end up in a case where
the magneton which is next could one
shot us but in this one we get through
next up cadabra let's see if dig can
take it down
we need the luck to actually get it to
hit we change to make a punch because
dig gets disabled
now finally we're going to use bubble
beam on the flareon and there we go
we have beaten rival 5
with a badge boosting blastoise
at the same time we've gotten there with
our freeze tactics blastoise let's see
how this goes while we fight team rocket
on the other side
well
it's not going quite as well
and one of the key reasons is because we
don't have badge boosts to power up here
against the cloister i was using bubble
beam because cloister has really high
defense and it's not quite as good
special
but we are getting taken out at the same
time we're taking on giovanni with our
badge boost glitch blastoise
we're going super saiyan here we're
going to use all of our badge boosts
right here on the right horn since it
really can't do that much to us
and next is needle queen one dig after
all our badge boosts takes it out we
have gotten through that challenge with
the badge boost glitch
while we can see that the freeze tactics
version of our blastoise is still
struggling against rival 5.
okay so now let's go fight sabrina with
the badge boost glitch this is gonna be
easy right we just set up our badge
boosts dig knock her out
well
if this was pokemon red and blue
probably yeah
but this is pokemon yellow
she has higher level pokemon
and she uses
moves like flash and kinesis here
those moves cause us to miss enough
times that we're not getting through
this fight
here at the same time our freeze tactics
version of the blastoise is really
having trouble
against rival five
so
will either of these get through their
fight anytime soon
[Music]
so here we have taken down the cloister
now can we take down magneton
we get through the magneton can we get
through kadabra no
and at the same time we're all the way
to alakazam with the badge boost glitch
version of blastoise but we get ko'd
so this really isn't happening for
either version of the game
they're both struggling incredibly at
this section
and
that's one of the keys to note is that
it's not like the game becomes easy just
because you're using these tactics
here we finally get the luck to get
through rival 5 with
our freeze tactics frieza
version of the
blastoise
and we can make our way on to giovanni
and team rocket
[Music]
here we take out team rocket very easily
because we know dig and here bubble
beams just fine for meowth let's go on
and take on giovanni himself
so
in this fight the key is really we want
to dig against nidorino
we want to
then use bubble beam here on the persian
it's bubble beam on the right horn
and a ice beam and there it goes we have
taken down giovanni with
our frieza version of
blastoise
so
now by this point i've actually given up
on sabrina with the badge boost glitch
it just wasn't happening
but with the ice version of our
blastoise we're taking some shots
because
all we need to do is get a freeze off on
the alakazam and that's a guaranteed win
that's the one benefit of freeze in gen
1 that
i would agree if people wanted to ban it
because ice moves when they do freeze
make it so that the opponent can never
move again
here we've frozen the alakazam and at
that point it's no question we are
getting through this fight
with that being done
frieza has five badges
and our badge boost glitch version
the super saiyan version of blastoise
still only has three badges guys
it hasn't beaten erika and it hasn't
beaten sabrina
so now they're both fighting against
koga and koga is important because koga
will give us a badge boost in speed
the game actually incorrectly says it's
a defensive badge boost if you research
it online it's actually a badge boost in
speed that we get from koga
but
if we can get through this of course
we're gonna feel pretty good
we've gotten all the way to venomoth
with the badge boost glitch but it
wasn't working out
here at the same time frieza has frozen
the venomoth and that is a guaranteed
win so
chalk another one up for freeze tactics
it's looking like freeze tactics are the
more broken play at this point
especially in the middle game
when we don't have really strong moves
we don't have hydro pump at this point
for example
maybe the ability to freeze your
opponents is too broken to allow in this
section of the game
but we just have to see how is this
going to play out
both of these are going to go and fight
against blaine at this point because
he's a fire type trainer we're a water
type pokemon we should have an advantage
here
here the badge boost glitch is actually
doing much better than freeze tactics
why would that be well because once we
get all of our defensive badge boosts up
we are able to use a move like surf and
just knock our opponents out
now it's not like we're not getting to
arcanine fairly often with frieza it's
just that when we do get there
we're trying to freeze it with ice beam
in order to guarantee a win
but it's not
getting the luck to actually freeze it
it's only a one in ten chance to freeze
an opponent
so
while we can get it we can't freeze
arcanine
we're just not getting it quite yet
and unlike our badge boost glitch
version we're a couple levels higher
because we've fought all of the minimum
battles up to this point so the only
option is to keep fighting here
and
in hindsight i should have just learned
surf with this version of blastoise i
didn't because i really wanted to see
if we could get through without needing
a stronger water move if we could just
hold off until we get hydro pump at
level 52
the problem is if we learn surf right
here we're guaranteed to not be able to
learn
uh hydro pump later on we're just not
going to have enough slots for moves at
that point
so here we have gotten through
with the badge boost glitch and
now it's back time to backtrack to erica
and see if we can take her down
we are at a higher level now but this
still isn't a guaranteed win as we can
see
so what do we need to happen well
we need to use a few of our badge boosts
but we can't set up six we'll be knocked
out before we get the chance to set them
up
so i end up setting up two to see if
that will work
here we're going to use dig
and we dig on the gloom
perfect we have gotten through
erika now it's time for both of our
blastoise to move on to giovanni the
last gym leader where they're at the
same time this gym shouldn't be that
hard
given that we have a type advantage on
all of his pokemon
so
the freeze tactics version we don't even
need to get a freeze it's just a matter
of getting the right luck and not taking
thunder
[Music]
so here with the badge boosts the idea
is basically to take down
the doug trio and then start setting up
our badge boosts and take everything
else out with surf
done and done but at the same time
freeze tactics has just taken down rival
six now with that being done however
it's time for both of these to start
making their way to the elite four and
the elite four is going to be very
interesting because that's where we're
finally going to start to separate these
two runs
you see
when we get to the elite four we have a
challenge right out of the gate lorelei
the problem is that lorelei uses water
and ice type pokemon and we don't have a
lot of moves that can actually deal with
them there is one though
fissure we can see right now the freeze
tactics
blastoise of course freeze tactics don't
work here so instead what we're trying
to get set up is to use fissure on the
strongest of lorelei's pokemon we get a
fissure off on lapras and it's down
now freeze tactics blastoise can move on
to bruno
bruno has two easy pokemon in onyx
but the rest of his team also isn't
really too bad they're fairly weak and
they go down to surf
now it's agatha that presents a huge
problem
she leads off with a gengar that knows
mega drain
and she of course has all the trolley
strategies toxic confuse ray etc
so while freeze tactics struggles there
let's see how the badge boost glitch
blastoise is doing it's on lorelei right
now and it's using surf to take down
cloister
next it's a fissure on slowbro
and dig to take down jinx
and finally a fissure on lapras and the
first elite four member is done
on the bruno we lead off with surf after
we set up all of our badge boosts by
setting up our badge boost here we make
the rest of the team one hit kos
[Music]
getting all the way here to machamp
where it's one hit and we're done
next on to agatha agatha is
really challenging for both of these
trying to set up badge boosts on agatha
when she can use moves like confuse ray
and hypnosis
is definitely not a great strategy and
given that we don't have the option of
freezing our opponents this is really
bad
so
here we are trying to get through
we are going to dig on arbok
we just need to land a dig there and we
have taken down gengar the badge boost
version the super saiyan version of our
blastoise has taken the lead and is on
the lance
here at the same time let's see how our
freeze tactics is doing against agatha
we froze the haunter can we take this
down
we are using ice beam on arbok
and if we can just get a freeze there on
the gengar okay now we just need to not
hit ourselves in confusion
okay we survive with five hp
and we take it out
both of them are on the lance
one more lead four remember which one
gets through first
here the badge boost glitch version is
setting up all of its badge boosts on
gyros then surfing it down
then we can use dig
or fissure on the
the dragonairs that dragonair held on
with like one hp it was ridiculous
so
here it's just a race to see which one's
gonna get to the finish line first
we take down gyarados with the badge
boost glitch we take down both dragon
air now
surf takes out aerodactyl can we take
out dragonite we just need a dodge
thunder and we got through
so
the badge boost glitch super saiyan
version of blastoise is on to the
champion
and here what we've got to do we've got
to of course use
all of our setup here on the sand slash
and hope not to take multiple slashes
so let's see how this goes if we can set
up our six withdrawals here we're gonna
get through
here at the same time freeze tactics is
getting very close to taking out
lance and there it is took down the
dragonite with ice beam
they're both onto the champion so it's
just who finishes first
looks like we've got a good run going
with our badge boost glitch
blastoise we're all the way to exeggutor
we take it down
dig takes out magneton
now we've taken down cloister with
fissure and
two digs
there goes flareon
the badge boost glitch
beat the game faster than using freeze
tactics but it's really neck and neck
it's really really close
so
to say that one is more broken than the
others probably not accurate they're
about equally broken guys
it's really funny to me that one is
banned and one isn't in a lot of
people's runs but that it's what it is
here with freeze tactics now we're gonna
try to take down the champion we froze
alakazam we're using ice beam here on
exeggutor
now ice beam freezes magneton we can get
through that
and
can we get a fissure yes we can on
cloister and finally a surf will take
down flareon and it's done
but the badge boost glitch blastoise is
already up to mewtwo
so on mewtwo the strategy is we need to
get all of our badge boosts set up which
is harder than it sounds
psychic can two shot us it's a one hit
if it's a critical hit
and mewtwo has a good critical hit
chance so even with swift it does decent
damage
so it's really just hoping for the luck
to get through this one
so
will we get through before frieza
catches up
we're setting up our badge boost it
looks like it's going well and we out
speed now and we use fissure and there
we go five badge boosts plus fissure was
enough to take down mewtwo
here
now the freeze tactics frieza is getting
there
and it's strategy is different it's
trying to freeze the mewtwo and once
it's frozen we know that it's a
guaranteed win
can it get the freeze off we have 10
attempts to try there's the freeze now
we switch to surf and surf it down
and we can see
in the end it's about a minute
difference between these two really
naughty all right so
that does it for today's episode and we
saw some pretty interesting stuff there
we saw that
really
the badge boost glitch is incredibly
broken and it's pretty much on par with
most of the other broken things that
people ban
but for some reason
you know when you're saying that you're
making a run consistent it's perfectly
fine to use the badge boost glitch but
not to use freeze tactics
not to use
something like a one hit ko move like
why they're basically the same thing
anyway that does it for this episode but
i did want to just drop a quick line
here very quickly at the end
i have something very special coming at
the end of this week you see in going
through the elite four recently i've
really been thinking about how we can
optimize the elite four more
i certainly could have used substitute
on agatha here for example to make that
one much easier
and think i've found the lowest possible
level run that you could solo the elite
four with a single pokemon
i'm going to be releasing that this
friday as part of a new little mini
series where i want to really look at
how best to beat each elite four member
at the lowest possible level with a
variety of pokemon
so hopefully you're interested in that
like and subscribe if you want to see a
little bit of elite four action in
advance check out my level five elite
four video linked right here or you can
also check the previous strategy race
that i did with bellsprout where we
proved that sleep powder and the badge
boost glitch is much more broken than
double team anyway see you next time
later
[Music]